Exam: $150, 80min

--IAM: Identify & Access Management
STS: Security Token Service
Different calls: AssumeRole, AssumeRoleWithWebIdentify, AssumeRoleWithSAML, GetFederationToken, GetSessionToken
STS API call: session token, an access key ID, a secret access key, expiration timestamp
AWS Organizations
API Acess Keys are required: AWS Command Line Interface(CLI), Tools for Window PowerShell, AWS SDKs, Direct HTTP calls using the APIs for
individual AWS services.
Important Facts: Roles do not have API credentials. Never create or store API keys on an EC2 instance.

Q1: API Access Keys are required in which scenarios below?
A: AWS CLI, Windonw PowerShell (API keys are needed when working programmatically through the CLI, PowerShell, Direct HTTP calls, and SDK API access)
Q2: What best describes an IAM role?
A: A role is something that a user, application or service can "assume" to receive temporarty security credentials that provide access to a resource.
Q3. Wchich of the following are managed using IAM?
A: Multi-Factor authentication, Roles. (IAM is used to manage users and their access to AWS, and AWS service, as well as access from one AWS resource to
another including: Users, Groups, Roles, Access Policies, API keys, Password Policies, Multi-factor authentication.)

---EC2: Elastic Compute Cloud
EC2 instances components: Amazon Machine Image(AMI), Instance Type, Network interface, Storage
process features: AVX, AES-NI(hardware acceleration of encryption), Turbo Boost(allow the processor to temporarily run at a higher clock speed), Transactional 
Synchrominzation Extenstions, P state and C state control
EBS: Elastic Block Store(hard drive)   lazy loading....
EBS Types: SSD (general purpose pg2, provisioned IOPS SSD io1), Hard disk Drives(throughput optimized st1, cold HDD sc1)
GP2: up to 10,000 IOPS per volume, only 160 MB/s.
ST1: up to 500MB/s and 500 IOPS per volume. 
IOPS: Input/Output Operations per Second
snapshot: point-in-time backups the EBS volumes that are stored in S3
view user-data&instance meta-data:
curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data/ (display bootstrapping commands)
curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/ (displays AMI, instance type, etc)

//scripts during setting up instances
write a Bash Scirpt that installs Apache
#!/bin/bash
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum install -y httpd
sudo service httpd start
sudo chkconfig httpd on
//scripts via SSH connecting to install Apache and Php
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum install -y httpd24 php70
sudo service httpd start
sudo chkconfig httpd on
sudo usermod -a -G apache ec2-user
sudo chown -R ec2-user:apache /var/WWW
echo "<?php phpinfo(); ?>" > /var/WWW/html/phpinfo.php

EC2 placement groups: cluster placement group, spread placement group
Puchasing options: on-demand, reserved(1-3 years), spot
EFS: Elastic File System, a shared filesystem option for EC2.
KMS: Key Management Service
Q1:If you are desiging an application that requires fast(10-25Gbps), low-latency connections between EC2 instances, what EC2 feature should you use?
A: placement groups
Q2:If you are running an application in a production environment and must add a new EBS volume with data from a snapshot, what should you do to 
avoid degraded perfomance during the volume's first use?
A: Initialize the data by reading each storage block on the volume
Q3:What command should you run on an instance if you want to view its bootstrp script?
A: curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data
Q4:What best describes the characteristics of EBS volumes?
A: They are persistent and can live past the lifetime of the instance. EBS volumes are network-attached, persistent storage volumes. When delete on 
termination is disabled they live past the life of an EC2 instance.
Q5. Developers want your help in deploying a high Transactional Cassandra NoSQL database on AWS. Due to the frequent writes, you want to maximize IOPS.
Which EC2 isntance type would your recommend?
A: Storage Optimized (i3). Maximum IOPS are achieved by using loval SSD instance store. i3 instances provide up to 3.3M IOPS to the local ephemeral storage.
Because Cassandra replicates datta across multiple nodes, ephemeral storage is safe to use.
Q6. You can mount to EFA from whicho fo the following:
A: On-prem servers running Linux, EC2 instances running Linux. (EFS is comptible with Linux operating systems.)

---VPC: Virtual Private Could--housed within a chosen AWS region, spans multiple avilability zones 
IPV4(32 bits, public and private addresses), IPV6(128 bits, public only)
IGW: Internet Gateways
Route Tables: two main components (destination, target)
NACLs: Network Access Control Lists (inbound, outbound)
Network ACL:
1) Operates at the subnet boundary
2) Supports ALLOW & DENY rules
3) Stateless, so return traffic must be allowed through an outbound rule
4) Process rules in NUMBER ORDER (lower #'s overrule higher #'s)
Security Groups: smilar to NACLs at instance level
Q1: A new CRM application is ready for its first relase into production. You want to make sure that the Production Enviorment will not be reachable
from the Development Enviorment. What is the easist way to isolate these two enviorments?
A: Put them in separate VPCs.
Q2: What are two things that must be configured to allow public access to an EC2 instance in a VPC?
A: Public IP or Elastiv IP or IPv6 address, route in the subnet route table with 0.0.0.0/0 as the destination and the Internet Gateway as the target
Q3: The customer has requested that all instances deployed in a subnet of the VPC be accessible from the Internet. What must be configured to ensure
that this requirement is met?
A: Route table. A router table with a route to the internet must be associated with the subnet before instances will be accessible from the internet.
Q4: You are running a public web service on an EC2 instance with a Public Ip. The application seems to be running slow, so you recommend to the administrator
taht he restart it. He decides it would be best to stop and start the instance. When the instance restarts, users are unable to reach it. What could be
the problem?
A: The public IP has changed. WHen an instance is stopped the public ip is reclaimed by AWS. A new one is assigned when the instance starts. An Elastic
IP should be used instead.

---High avilability
ELB: Elastic Load Balancer, paired with Auto Scaling, could be used in public and private EC2
classic ELB(simple balancing of traffic to multiple EC2), application ELB(using Content-based rules), network LB(extreme perfomance, layer 4 TCP loading
balancing)
Bastion Host: EC2 instance that lives in a public subnet and used as a "gateway" for traffic that is destined for instances that lives in private subnets.
NAT Gateway: created in a public subnet, part of the private subnets route table
VPC endpoints: gateway endpoints (S3 and DynamoDB), interface endpoints
Auto Scaling: automates the process of increasing or decreasing the number of provisioned on-demand instances available for your application
Auto Scaling components: launch configuration, auto scaling group, cloudwatch alarms
Q1: You are having trouble deploying an application in an Autoscaling Group because it is stateful. What two things must you do to make it stateless?
A: Have developers rewrite the application to use a NoSQL database for state information;
   Provision a NoSQL database such as DynamoDB or ElastiCache.
Q2: Your team is trying to migrate a busy application to the cloud. They have established a VPN to an AWS VPC. While they are provisioning the EC2s in 
the VPC they want to see if it is possilbe to continue to route traffic to the on-premise servers using a load Balancer inside of the VPC. What would you
suggest?
A: Configure a target group with IP addresses as the target type. Add the private IP addresses of the on-premise servers to the target group. Configure
an ALB or NLB to route to the target group.
Q3: Your document management application makes heavy use of S3. You use autoscaling to make sure that there is always enough EC2 instances. The instances are
depolyed in private subnets. What VPC feature should you utilize to make sure that read/write performances to S3 does ot suffer under peak load?
A: VPC Endpoints for S3.
Q4: Which of the following AWS servies are inherently Fault Tolerant?
A: Route 53, DynamoDB. (RDS can be made to be hightly available, but not fault tolerant due to the time it taks to fail over)
Q5. What happens when an EC2 instance that is being served traffic from a ELB becomes unhealthy?
A: The ELB will stop serving traffic to it and send new requets to the remaining healthy instances. Auto Scaling can take unhealthy instance, terminate
it and replace it with a new instance.
Q6. You deploy a highly available architecture across two AZs. At peak load, there are four instances running at about 65% average capacity. What changes
would you need to make this architecture fault tolerant?
A: Add two more intances in a third AZ for a total of six.

---DNS services
Route 53: a domain management service provided by AWS (domain registration, domain name system service, health checking)
Q1: Your CloudFront distribution is performing well, but you are still getting too many requests at the origin locations. What could be one way to increase
CloudFront performances?
A: Increase the default TTL. If your default time to live (TTL) is too short, you may have requests form the edge location to the origin occuring when they
are not required. If you increase the TTL, you should experience fewer hits to the origin.
Q2: Which of the following will help to offload requests to your S3 bucket?
A: Regional Edge Caches, CloudFront Distribution configured to cache static content
Q3. An RTMP distribution is for ...
A: streming Adobe Flash media files from an S3 bucket origin.
Q4. What are two primary benefits of using a CloudFront web distribution?
A: Users experience lower latency and faster content load time. Reduce load on your application's resources (Since static content is cached, there are fewer
requests made to the origin servers).

---Database
Rational databases (SQL) (vertical scaling and read replicas, OLTP/OLAP), NoSQL Databases (horizontal scaling, four types: column, key-value, document, graph)
Amazon RDS, Amazon Redshift
Amazon DynamoDB(document), Amazon ElastiCache(Key-value), Amazon Neptune(graph), HBase on EMR(column)
RDS: Relational Datebase Service
RDS backups: Maximum retention period for automated sanpshot 35 days
Edge location: AWS Route 53, AWS cloudFront, AWS WAF, AWS shield, Lambda Edge

ElastiCache: Memcached (simple, easy to scale, multithreaded), Redis (complex, multi-AZ failover, snapshots for backup and restore), data persistence, encryption)
Redshift: a petabyte-scale data warehousing service (OLAP), massive parallel processing (MPP)
Redshit Spectrum: query unstructured data stored in S3, query exabytes of data in a few mins!
Q1: When or why could you use Redshift Spectrum?
A: To query structured, semi-structured, or unstructured data stored in S3 using SQL and joining that with your Redshift tables.
Q2: Which database service allows you to access your data with a choice of open source APIs?
A: Neptune
Q3: Which two solutions are suitable for storing session state information for your information?
A: Redis on ElastiCache, DynamoDB. (session state information is frequently updated, and can place a heavy load on your relational database).
Q4. Which database service allows you to provision the number of reads per second that your talbe can support?
A: DynamoDB (With DynamoDB you can provision Read Capacity Units (RCU) and Write Capacity Units (WCU) or just let it autoscale.)
Q5. What database service on AWS is optimized for querying the relationships between entities?
A: Neptune (a Graph Database service, optimized for graph structures such as nodes(data entities), edges(relationships), and properties to represent and store data)

---S3: Simple Storage Service
SSE(Server Side encryption), Client Side encryption, 
(SSE-S3, SSE-C, SSE-KMS)
Storage Class: Standard, Reduced Redundancy Storage(RRS), Infrequent Access(S3-IA) (> 30 day), One Zone Infrequent Access(S3 One Zone-IA)(> 30 day), Glacier (>90 day, vault
lock feature)
S3 Event Notification (SNS, Lamba, SQS)
S3 permissions (IAM, bucket policies, S3 access control list)
CORS(Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)
--Some tool to check up S3 static website: dig ...(website), nslookup ...(website)
Storage "Transit" Services: snowball, multi-part upload (100MB, up to 5TB), single operation upload (up to 5GB), storage gateway 
snowball (upt to 80TB), snowball edge(up to 100TB), snowmobile(100PB)
Storage Gateway(store local data in S3): Volume Gateway (Gateway-Cached Volumes, Gateway-Stored Volumes--EBS snapshots), File Gateway(objects are stored in S3), 
Tape Gateway(common backup applications)

Q1. You work for a hospital that is required to store patient's medical reports for minimum of 10 years. Most of these records will never be accessed but must be made aviailable
upon request (within a few hours). What is the most cost-effective storage option?
A: Glacier
Q2. What AWS solution will automatically back up your local data to S3 and can recover it when a disk volume fails?
A: Storage Gateway.
Q3. Which implemetation of Storage Gateway allows you to access your files as objects in S3 and preserves their metadata?
A: File Gateway. (It is the only implemetation that allows you direcgt access to your objects in S3)
Q4. How long will it take to retrieve an archive from Glacier using standard retrieval if the vault is locked?
A: Three to five hours to restore it and then the time to download. (Time to first byte is 3 to 5 hours. You can be notified by SNS when you can start the download.)

----VPN(virtal private network)
Internet Protcol Security (IPsec): suite of secure network protocols for IPv4, provides mutal authentication and encryption
only have one virtal private gateway can be attached to a VPC
customer gateway: a pysical device or software application. staic, dynamic routing: border gateway protocol(BGP), autonomous system number(ASN)

AWS Direct Connect: a service providing a dedicated network connection between your network and one of the AWS direct connect locations.
benefits: reduce network costs, increase network consistency, dedicated private network connection to on-premise.

Q1: You have set up an AWS Direct Connect connection for your company but still want to create a backup solution in case the Direct Connect connections
fail. What two solutions could use as failover connection?
A: Direct Connect (You can configure a second Direct Connect that could connect to a different Direct Connect Facility. They could give you double the 
bandwidth when both are operating.), AWS virtual private network (A virtal private network is a great backup solution for AWS direct connect. You setup 
the VPN as a lower priority route than the Direct Connect and it will automatically failover.)
Q2. You configured a Hardware VPN using a Customer Gateway and a Virtual Private Gateway. YOu are concerned about there being a single point of failure.
What could you do to fix this?
A: Install a second Customer Gateway in the datacenter and create a second VPN connections to the Virtual Private Gateway. (The Virtual Private Gateway 
already has two IPSec tunnels, so is not a single point of failure. However, the Customer Gateway is.)
Q3. You are a global organization and have deployed VPCs in four regions around the world. Servers in your datacenter in the U.S. need connect to instances 
in these VPCs. How could you most esailiy make a private connection from your datacenter that could reach each VPC?
A: Create a Direct Connect to a region close to your datacenter and make a private VIF connection to Direct Connect Gateway.

------Application and Messaging services
SNS: Simple Notification Service
SNS components(topic <=256KB, subscriber, publisher)
SES: Simple Email Service
SQS: Simple Queue Service (server side encryption)
two types of polling(long, short)   two types of queues(standard, firsr-in-first-out FIFO)
an queue sotres messages (for up to 14 days)
loosely coupled/decoupled systems: multiple componets that can process information without being connected
Amazon MQ (broker, web console): allow you to use industry APIs and protocols for messaging, including JMS, NMS, AMQP, STOMP, MQTT, and WebSocket.
SWF: Simple Work Flow Service (starter, workflow, tasks, worker)
API Gateway 
build RESTful APIs, delpoly APIs to a "Stage", create a new API version by cloning an exisiting one,
roll back to previous API deployments, custom domain names, create and mange API keys for access and
meter usage of the API keys through Amazon CloudWatch Logs....
benefits: ability to cache API responses, DDoS protection via CloudFront, SDK generation for iOS, Android,
support swagger, request/response data transformation
Q1. Besides CloudFront, what are two ways API Gateway can blok DDOS attacks from reaching your backend?
A: Caching API reponses, request throttling
Q2. Which service will assure that tasks get performed in a pre-defined sequence? 
A: SWF
Q3. Which messaging services can send a message to multiple subscribers simultaneously?
A: Amazon MQ, SNS. (SQS is for sending a message to a single recipient.)

------Serverless architectures
microservices: lamda functions, messaging services, API gateway, containers, load balancing and autoscaling.
Lambda: serverless computing platform. 15min limitation!! 
Q1. Which of the following is not a possilbe trigger for a lamba function?
A: Resource Groups. With the Resource Groups tool, you can create a custom console that organizes and consolidates
information based on your project and the resources that you need.
Q2. How can you give your Lamba function more CPU capacity so it completes faster?
A: You can dial up the amount of RAM, which also proportionally increases CPU.


-----Monitoring CloudWatch
metrics, logs and events
set alarms
CloudTrail: show the API request and the status of Failed for each failed request
CloudWatch: a monitoring and management service that provides data and actionable insights
for AWS, hybrid, and on-premises applications and infrastructure resources.

Q1. How could you automatically add tags to instances when they are first launched?
A: Create a Lambda function triggered by a CloudWatch Event.
Q2. Why does stopping and starting an instance (usually) fix a System Status Check error?
A: Stopping and starting an instance causes the instance to be provisioned on differnt AWS
hardware.
Q3. Which of the following CloudWatch EC2 metrics will require a custom script to enable?
A: Memory Utilization. (Custom scripts are needed to enable OS-levle monitoring of EC2 instances.
Memory Utilization falls into that category, which CPU Credit Usage and Utilizaton does not.)
Q4. What is the difference between an System Status Check and an Instance Status Check?
A: System Status Check failures represent an AWS issue at the host level, while instance Status
Check failures are generally issues with our specific instance at the OS level. (System Status
failures are things like hardware failure of the hose. Instance Status failures are things like
software misconfigureation on memory exhaustion.)
Q5. Where can you find a log of failed API authorizatins?
A: CloudTrail Logs. CloudTrail will show the API request and the status of Failed for each failed request.

-----Deployment Services
Cloud template
CloudFormation: saves time, allows for backups of infrastrucute, verision control infrastructure
template: resources, parameters, mappings, conditions, outputs
helper scripts: cfn-init(packages, users, groups, files, commands), cfn-signal, cfn-hup
ECS: Elastic Container Service, a container management service, components(Docker Image, Container Registry,
Task Definitions, ECS cluster)
EKS(Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes)
Elatic BeanStalk: automated deployment and scaling service, deployment Options(In-place, Blue-Green)


-----Analytics
Kinesis: Video Streams, Data Streams, Firehose, Data Analytics
benefits: real-time processing, parallel processing, durable, scales
Elastic MapReduce (EMR): running big data frameworks (Hadoop, Spark) on AWS
EMR slave nodes: core node, task node
EMR map phase, reduce phase: 
------
KMS: Key Management Service
RTO: recovery time objective -how long to recover
RPO: recovery point objective -how much data is lost
4 disater recovery strategy: backup and restore, pilot light, low capacity standby, multi-site active-active

Q1. Which of the following services or service features are natively highly avaialbel in a region and can cope 
with a AZ failure without itself failing.
A: EBS snapshots (EBS snapshots, or AMIs, are stored within S3 and so will be safe if an AZ fails.), VPC (running
across a region), Internet Gateway, Virtual Private Gateway, Dynamic Hardware VPC VPN (a correctly configured 
Dynamic VPN uses two tunnels in serrated AZ, and so it's resilient to the failure of an AZ.)
Q2. Which of the following EC2 metrics will NOT be automatically collected by CloudWatch?
A: The number of running processes on the instance (only available from within the OS), Average Memory Utilization.
Q3. Which of the following services allows an administrator access to the underlying operating system?
A: Amazon EC2 (SSH?RDP to the opertating system of your EC2 instances), Amazon EMR (EMR allows you to SSH into the Master
Node). (DynamoDB and Amazon RDS provide APIs for operations.)
Q4. As an AWS consultant, you have been tasked with finding ways to quickly lower a client's AWS monthly bill. What
is the first thing you should ask them for?
A: Ask them to run a Trusted Advisor report and send you the results.
Q5. You are running an application on an EC2 instance that is extremely sensitive to variations in network performance, 
specifically the variation in PING times and latency. The application also devours CPU cycles when this network jitter
happens, so you need to implement a solution that removes any risk of network performance degradation. What option 
works in this scenario?
A: Ensure that the instance has enhanced networking. (Enhanced networking (https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/enable-configure-enhanced-networking/) 
allows high-performance networking by bypassing the need for CPU involvement in virtualizing a network interface. 
This increases packets per second and decreases the variability in network performance.)
Q6. An application that retrieves data from an external web site is running on a single M5 large instance with a private IP.
During peek loads, users report very long delays and timeouts. CloudWatch reports the CPU usage never climbs above 60%. 
What could be causing the issue?
A: The instance could be sending outbound requests through a NAT instance which may be undersized. (If the NAT is running on 
an EC2 with low network performance, it could be a bottleneck.)
Q7. You have an application which demands extreme database performance. It needs to handle millions of read operations per 
second, and offer low latency. What product or combination of products would you suggest?
A:  DynamoDB and DAX (DynamoDB accelerator (DAX) adds performance enhancements to DynamoDB, and is the best solution available
 to meet this scenario's demands.)
Q8. What can help boost performance of an HPC application that relies heavily on inter-node communication?
A:  Making sure all instances are using Enhanced Networking. (Enhanced networking uses single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV)
to provide high-performance networking capabilities on supported instance types. SR-IOV is a method of device virtualization 
that provides higher I/O performance and lower CPU utilization when compared to traditional virtualized network interfaces) 
Putting all instances in a Cluster Placement Group.
Q9. Your development team is building an application. It will be used for student registrations at a nearby university. 
It will receive heavy use a few times a year before term-time, and light usage for the remainder of the year. The student 
data being stored includes standard ID information such as name, address, DOB, government ID number, class enrollment, etc.
The data is private and no public access should be allowed.Given the usage profile, and from a cost optimization perspective, 
what database solution would you suggest to the development team for using with the application?
A:  One or more tables within DynamoDB (DynamoDB offers a usage model and it can be configured to scale based on demand,
 either automatically or manually. While it is a public facing database, it can be restricted, as with all AWS products.)
Q10. Your company is currently storing large amounts of data using Storage Gateway in a gateway-stored configuration. The company 
would like to decommission this and store and access all the data directly in S3. What would be the most efficient way 
to migrate the existing data into S3?
A: Restore the EBS snapshots managed by Storage Gateway onto EBS volumes. Attach the volumes to EC2s in a VPC that has an S3 endpoint.
Log into the EC2s and copy the data into S3 using the CLI. (In gateway-stored mode, the data is already stored in S3 as EBS snapshots, 
so you can get access to it by creating EBS volumes from the snapshots.)
